And the other day, Song 7, and oh yeah, yeah, now this great master, great master Kiapua Toruran,
introducing again pointing out the nature of the mind, the nature of the person of this mind.
This person's mind is, he is what is again a Dzogchen teaching, what's called?
If you use Dzogchen teaching, Dzogchen is the complete nature of the mind's teachings,
the nature of everything. In Dzogchen teaching, everything is in a three-kaya status.
Three-kaya, such as Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, and Dharmakaya status.
This three-kaya, not outside, it starts from within us.
This is, therefore, is called, inwardly inherited three-kaya naturals.
Because of inwardly three-kaya naturals, then we proceed externally to three-kaya-buddhas,
such as the Buddha Sambokaya Buddha, the Buddha Vedyadara, the Buddha Sambokaya Buddha,
as Dharmakaya Buddha, and the Vedyadara, as well as the Five Dhyan Buddhas,
like Sambokaya Buddha, and Bhurakama Sambokaya Haryakyamuni, as Dharmakaya Buddha.
That's what we proceed with.
And so, with this understanding, now, this present our mind, right?
My mind, your mind, is the nature of the three-kaya status, three-kaya status.
These are the nature of the three-kayas in the Tibetan world.
Maybe you ask, I will, this is a big topic here, too.
So, therefore, I will use the Tibetan world, too.
Moo, Rangi, Tukki.
Moo, if you like to write that, N-G-O-W-O, Moo.
And Rangi, R-A-N-G-C-H-I-N, or Z-H-I-N, Rangi.
And Tukki, T-H-U-G, and then J-E, Tukji.
So, these are the nature of the mind, our mind.
This is also known as three primordial vistas.
Three primordial vistas.
Primordial vista of the, if I used to be the word, primordial vista of the Moo,
primordial vista of Rangi, and primordial vista of Tukki.
This is the inherited nature.
Other day we spoke what?
The Buddha is residing right in our heart center.
All the youth provides body.
This youthful vast body, that Buddha, which is residing right in the center of our heart,
is the essence of these three qualities.
These are, in a way, the wisdom nucleus, which is residing in our heart center.
These are primordial nuclear vistas.
Nuclear wisdom of the emptiness, nuclear nature, the wisdom of clarity,
the natural wisdom of the energy arising, these three vistas.
These three vistas are the source of every display in the samsara.
And all, everything. This is the standard, these three wisdom is.
The ordinary wisdom is, for example, that what we see, the external poem, song, space,
are also, according to Tukki Tukki, it developed from this, from this sense.
And the body, speech, mind come from this.
And everything, all these three realms of what the Buddha teaches us,
also is a reflection of this.
This is the soul. Therefore, it is the soul of every display in the samsara.
And since it has that, then it is also embodiment of all the enlightened qualities,
such as dharmakaya, sambhukaya, dharmakaya we talk about.
And the other day, we spoke with it, with five guys.
Five guys are the display of these three natures.
Three combined toga that nature is arising in the form of these three five guys.
Those five guys are dharmakaya, sambhukaya, narmakaya, enlightenment kaya,
and indestructible kayas. Those are named.
What are those differences between these? There is nothing really much difference.
The enlightened kaya, the fourth kaya, can be sometimes translated as subhava kaya or dharmat kayas
.
But enlightened kaya, that means these three natures, Moo, Rangi, they are already enlightened
status.
Bring up, high up that religion, bring up that qualities, it's called enlightened kayas.
Enlightened kaya or the Tibet, mukar, nain, chupa, ko, is.
And the fifth one, is indestructible kayas.
These natures, three natures or these kayas, can not be destroyed, cannot be divided.
It's all in the same states, same natures states, indestructible natures states.
Never change, never go bad or never things happen.
From the beginning times until now, when you got that realization, not just as natural as it is,
when you got that realization, exactly as it is, this is called indestructible kayas.
So, those are the four kayas. And then, five Vasudams here.
Five Vasudams here, and that I think many of you know, but I will list again, it's coming in later
to you,
but maybe I talk here too, let's do it. And the five Vasudams are dharmadhatu Vasudams,
and then meron-like Vasudams, econimity Vasudams,
and all discrimination, evilness Vasudams, and all accomplishing Vasudams.
All accomplishing Vasudams. Those are five Vasudams.
Where this comes from? Again, it came from the same source.
From the nature, from the moral, rangi and the tukkins.
When I translate these three things into English, many times it's moral.
I translate it as natural, natural.
But they are really, it's just very similar in a way, the moral, rangi.
So, natural, more translated as natural, and rangi translated as clarity, I translate it, kind of
slightly different.
Clarity, natural, and tukki translated many times, arise, sparking energy or compassion.
Those are, I translate it. But I think this great master explaining that nature, again, these three
things,
more in the head, head, so I won't go here, maybe here, there, there.
So, these three things, so these five Vasudams come from where?
A children from all that things. But we say, particularly from kind of every lighted way,
these five Vasudams are the clarity aspect of this nature.
What could, moral, rangi, tukki, we say.
So, these five Vasudams are sparking, lightening, lightening qualities of rangi, clarity.
This is the clarity aspect of the nature of the mind.
Then, all the other Buddhas call it, everything, such as the five,
all the Sambokaya call it, the Nama Kaya call it, all that is then, is completed within this Rupa.
Within the, in the Rupa mobile, within the Rangi, within the tukki,
or within the natural, emptiness natural, within the clarity natural, within the compassion natural
.
All is completed within that, that.
And now, then we continue this.
And therefore, so, when you, even though this Rupa,
when all these five Vasudams are divided and it's kind of like make explanation, all these things,
all these explanations, but when you look to the nature of the mind,
or when you look to the opposite mind, that you find any of those columns,
any of those discriminations, no, there's nothing really you find.
Even you make this explanation, if you look inward to your Rupa,
to your mind, nature of the mind, all is in the way evaporated.
All is just a kind of like, when, beyond the conceptions.
That aspect, again, our highlight of this great Master's truth, that aspect is emptiness.
That's called emptiness nature.
You don't find anything, even if you make all these explanations, all that,
but we try to find all those, each of those, in our mind, in our Rupa, our nature of the mind,
there's nothing we can really pinpoint. Anything is all transcendent.
All went away, in a way. We reach the speechless states.
When you discover that nature, that is known as Dharmakaya natures.
That is Dharmakaya. It's not something that we stuck there.
We discover Dharmakaya nature.
What would Dharmakaya say? What is Dharmakaya?
Always in the teachings, beyond the conceptions, beyond the three times,
beyond any levels, beyond any aspects, that is Dharmakaya, Dharmakaya.
Now that Dharmakaya, we are not looking outside.
We are discovering within our self, within your self, within my self.
How we discover, as the great Master says,
when you make an explanation of all these minds, Dharmakaya, Dharmakaya,
all these things, when you look inwardly, there is nothing you see,
nothing substantial exists at all.
That openness, that emptiness, that specialness, that vastness,
that freedom is the nature of Dharmakaya,
the nature of Dharmakaya of one's own nature of the mind.
We discover that all. Now you discover that nature, nature.
Now that Dharmakaya, Dharmakaya even is beyond all of those things.
It is ready to arising, ready to arising as a display of the conception,
in my usual conceptions, ready to arising, that energy before it is materialized
as a conception, that energy, that vastness, clarity, that openness,
that vividness is known as Sambukkaya. Here, great Master says,
the self-luministic quality of the emptiness is Sambukkaya.
That is Sambukkaya, that energy, that clarity, that.
And what the great Master in the Dukti teaching said,
when you discover the Dharmakaya nature and relax on the clarity,
he says, trying to stay in the clarity aspect of that nature.
That means we bring up that with Dharmakaya and with Sambukkaya, Sambukkaya energy.
We relax a little, bring more clarity energies, or clarity aspect.
Those poor reasons in the Dukti teaching, what he said,
meditating with three immoguls, bring a little clarity.
Not just kind of like most sinking on that emptiness, sink it in, bring more clarity.
That means you bring the energy, vibrating energy and clarity in our meditation.
And that is Sambukkaya, Sambukkaya and Dharmakaya's inseparable status, of course.
So that is Sambukkaya. Again this is Sambukkaya, we are not talking outside.
This time, our own nature of the mind, the clay, the energy, energy, that clarity,
that is clarity, that or the luminous to call it, is Sambukkaya, that.
And because of these two, the openness of the Dharmakaya or emptiness of Dharmakaya,
clarity, energy of that Sambukkaya in separable status,
then what is arising, arising thoughts, if I use the word thoughts or consults,
that is Dharmakaya.
This Dharmakaya is also unblockable of the energy coming out.
Unblockable energy cannot stop.
That, anything can arise, anything without any restrictions or regulated,
arises really, continuous, free flow, flows, call it, that in here, that is Narmakaya.
That is Narmakaya Buddha.
Now this Narmakaya Buddha, that free flowing energy towards the coming,
that nature is nature of the Dharmakaya, nature of Sambukkaya.
That means that free flowing thought is empty, its clarity is sparkling.
So that free flowing thought is embodiment of the three kyas.
Therefore in the Dzogchi teaching, what is it, when you meditate, don't stop the thought.
Don't permanent thought, don't try to beat this and that.
Let it come, let it go.
Stay in that freedom status.
But don't carry with the destructors.
And don't label, don't follow the upper dakthas.
When you follow that upper thought, we are labeling.
We are, that means label, root of label is grasping, is clinging.
Then we are deluded.
That deluded is what is called in the Dzogchi teaching, that is samsara.
Then we are wandering the samsara again, wandering.
Therefore, we bring a word that is coming forth, let it come, let it go.
Are we able to stay in the prison state exactly as it is?
Then there is nothing is bad, nothing is wrong.
Everything is in the three kyas state.
Everything is in the perfect state.
All that for those reasons.
And it is called Samad-Bhadar state.
And for that reason, the great master Dungchima said, his dharma dhatu, treasures, what is it?
Emptiness in Samad-Bhadara, appearance in Samad-Bhadara.
And respectfully, Samad-Bhadara.
Samsara is Samad-Bhadara.
Narana is Samad-Bhadara.
Everything is in Samad-Bhadar states or perfect, great, perfect states.
This realization is not going to start from outside.
This begins with these three kyas states.
When abiding with these three kyas states, and all is in three kyas states.
Therefore, it is all is Buddha Samad-Bhadar state.
Buddha Samad-Bhadara, what is it?
If we translate that into Indian, what means?
Always good.
That's nothing is not good.
All good.
This means all good.
If we are abiding in the three kyas states as we discover, as we abide in these stages,
all is good.
All is good.
As I said, yes now.
Don't give a say.
Narana good.
Samsara is good.
And everything is good.
Everything in that context of the states.
Therefore, three kyas is, again, is very massive point that we are not going to discover that from
outside.
Looking and searching with effort.
It is within us, we discover with effortless, naturally, very relaxed, peaceful.
That's what we say.
And to make that clear explanation,
to make this clear explanation of what we use.